1) Give one disadvantage of forward Euler for stiff ODEs.

Forward Euler has a constant step size. When the function is changing quickly, you need a small step size to track it correctly. If you don't know the function, you need to use a small step size to be sure = much CPU time.



2) If you fit M parameters to N data points, what are the degrees of freedom f for the Chi-squared distribution?

f = N - M


3) Please describe in a sentence or two what is a Marcov process.

A Markov process is a stochastic process describing a sequence of possible events in which the probability of each event depends only on the state attained in the previous event.


4) Describe in a sentence or two why using the threading module and threads in general in python often doesn't accelerate the code.

Python has no real threads, but uses Global Interpreter Lock (GIL) which basically allows only one tread runnning at the same time. Only I/O processes gain from thready in Python.


5) What does the Nyquist theorem say about sampling a signal with maximum frequency f_max and why is this important?

To capture a signal with a maximum frequency of f_max Hz, you must sample at a rate greater than 2 f_max samples per second. Sampling below the Nyquist rate leads to aliasing, a phenomenon where high-frequency components are inaccurately represented as lower frequencies, causing loss of information and image/sound distortion.


6) Briefly describe what is PCA.

Principal Component Analysis, a technique to simplify complex data by reducing dimensions while keeping key info. For example if height and weight correlate,one can replace them by a new paremeter/Dimension.


7) What is one disadvantage of acceptance–rejection sampling compared to inverse transform sampling?

One major disadvantage of acceptance–rejection sampling compared to inverse transform sampling is its significantly lower efficiency and slower computational speed, as it requires generating and discarding numerous random samples, particularly in higher dimensions, whereas inverse transform sampling generates a valid sample on every Iteration.
